Add a quick post on our website migration (#212)
readthedocs/blog: website-migration.rst

.. post:: Mar 3, 2023
   :tags: website, migration 
   :category: Changelog

.. Categories: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1io3HN61wpFtb6XP-cyONhV5CNWiZ5dbhZM4nvifyT5g/edit#heading=h.3xtrxdnntzqi

Read the Docs website migration to about.readthedocs.com

> ========================================================

Author: This is a bit of a different topic? That seems like a marketing post about the new site, where as this is a changelog entry explaining the timeline.

> ========================================================

Reviewer: I would say that the former headline gives the reader an impression that it's going to be a technical blog post unveiling techniques used for a migration. But I think we're rather trying to avoid becoming technical? We don't mention Pelican or DNS redirects? (I'm yet to read to the finish, sorry I was a bit distracted now and before)

> Read the Docs is in the process of migrating our primary marketing website to a single site: https://about.readthedocs.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the Docs has introduced a single primary marketing site: https://about.readthedocs.com.
```

This single site allow us to better educate users about which of our products is best for them,
and direct people to the site where they have registered an account.

> There has been a good deal of confusion about this in the past,

Author: Can you explain more? The goal of the post is to say we're _not_ doing that.

> There has been a good deal of confusion about this in the past,

Reviewer: Ah yeah, so I mean something like:

In our work with two separate platforms (Business and Community), we seek to optimize and combine solutions when it makes sense. We operate two different infrastructures, but large parts of their platforms originate from the same source code. This is part of our [open source philosophy](https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/open-source-philosophy.html).

> There has been a good deal of confusion about this in the past,

Author: The open source philosophy page is really different in tone and meaning versus what you're suggesting. It's all about how we don't support custom installs, not anything about our hosting.

I agree there's a useful message there, and I'll try to find a way to fit it in.

> There has been a good deal of confusion about this in the past,

Author: I actually think your text suggestion cover this nicely:

> There are no changes in our commitment to offering free hosting for open source,
or the separation of infrastructure for Business customers.

and this change will make it much more clear about which site you're going to.

Importantly,
**we are keeping both our Community and Business sites separate for logged in users.**

> Nothing about our commitment to offering free hosting for open source is changing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no changes in our commitment to offering free hosting for open source,
nor the separation of platform and infrastructure for Business customers.
```

> only our approach to explaining our features and products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes are important for our approach to explaining our features and products,
but on a technical level they only concern a static website.
```

Author: This seems to be adding technical content to a paragraph about our commitment to OSS. I think it muddles the message.

Reviewer: Sure! I was going along with the idea of presenting a bit "under the hood", but as housekeeping etc. we can skip it.

Marketing website migration process
-----------------------------------

The process that we're taking to migrate our marketing site is as follows:

> #. ✅ The initial work here was creating a proper marketing site,

Reviewer 2: I may remove the emojis from this numbered list and move the 3rd step out of the list and leave it just as a regular paragraph

Author: This is meant to be a timeline, and show which steps are done?

   and deploying it to https://about.readthedocs.com.
   This was done in January 2023.
#. ✅ Redirecting *logged out* Business (``readthedocs.com``) users to the new site.
   This was done in February 2023, and we've been monitoring the impact of this change.
#. The final step will be to redirect *logged out* Community (``readthedocs.org``) users to the new site.

>    This will happen in Q2 2023,

Reviewer 2: It will be good if we can combine this movement with the beta templates, so the there is more visual fit between the sites

Author: That seems ambitious, and I don't like blocking work without as strong reason. I agree it's ideal, but I'd call it a "nice to have" instead of a blocker 👍

Reviewer 2: Yes. I'd not block this on the new templates.

I'm trying to establish some timeframe we can commit to as a goal for the new templates. Otherwise, I think we'll be in this "gray" state. We can use timeframe as "an excuse" to force ourselves to do the work.

Author: Agreed, but I think we have clarity there with this milestone: https://github.com/readthedocs/ext-theme/milestone/1 -- that's likely the place to try and push forward on things.

   as we want to make sure the experience is smooth for users who are used to browsing our current site.

We're excited about our new website,
because historically we have done a poor job of explaining our products.
Being able to have a single site that explains the features of our various sites,
and the value that Read the Docs brings to the documentation ecosystem is exciting for us.

Technical details
-----------------

Historically,
our marketing pages were generated from our Django application,
and updated only when we deployed a new version of the site.
With our new approach,
our marketing site is actually hosted by Read the Docs itself.

Self-hosting our marketing website gives us many benefits that our users love about hosting their docs with us:

* A proper static site generator built for making a website and blog.
* Pull request previews to allow us to review content changes.
* Instant deployment of updates whenever we merge to ``main``.
* All the rest of our :doc:`readthedocs:reference/features` that we offer to our users.

> We're using our new :doc:`readthedocs:build-customization` feature to build our site with Pelican,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're using our new :doc:`readthedocs:build-customization` feature to build our site with `Pelican <https://getpelican.com/>`__,
```

> .. post:: Mar 3, 2023

Author: But anyway, I think this is ready go to. I'll plan to merge it Thursday. 

```suggestion
.. post:: Mar 9, 2023
```
